so it used to be that if you wanted a
retro styled like uh typewritery
keyboard the only real options were to
convert an old typewriter which we have
done
or buy custom keycaps and replace all
the ones on your current keyboard but
now
there are actually a fair number of
off-the-shelf options for these
typewriter keyboards so let's try some
of them out today shall we
[Music]
so we actually don't quite have as many
options today as it might at first
appear because
some of them are just different variants
of the retro classic from
asio so they've got the artisan
the posh the onyx and the elwood and the
first thing that comes to mind for me
looking at this is
are there really so many people out
there that are looking for these style
of keyboards that they need four
different colors
so let's go ahead and get these unpacked
cable feels nice so they oh
how to impress linus that is a type c
connector which i actually found out
recently is only a cost difference of
about 15 cents over a high quality micro
b connector but for some reason many new
products still haven't switched over to
it a couple other things back here so
there's bluetooth mode there's usb mode
and you can switch between mac and pc
all right well part of the video today
is definitely going to be
rolling through all the different color
options here because if you're the kind
of person who buys
a stylish keyboard then surely you do
care about the color scheme
a fair whack
so not only can you switch between
apple and windows mode
they've actually included a bunch of
additional keycaps this must be the mac
version of the f keys all right now
let's have a look at what the artisan
has to show for itself this is actually
a perfect example of a company
leveraging
what little tooling work they've done
to
turn that into as many models as
possible so you can actually see here
that the artisan is just a cross between
the onyx and the posh so it's got
exactly the same kind of rose gold metal
accents and then it's just using the
faux leather backing and then the matte
black
infill for the keycaps
bringing us finally to the elwood
which is different from every other
model that we have in pretty much every
way actually
so for one this thing had this has what
appears to be
a genuine wood backing is it really
no way
feels like
it hey james
james
i think he's up for lunch that's okay
there's another finishing touch on this
one though that's pretty cool so you
actually have the ability if you want
to replace the plate here so you can
undo the screws and i wonder if you
could flip it around and engrave it
yourself either way they sent a custom
one with their impressive established
2009 retro classic
and check that out
they silk screened linus media on there
that's that's cute i mean my last name's
sebastian not media but you know hey
plus forever
all right
these are really freaking heavy
keyboards how much are these things
these are not cheap
i think they're gonna have to do a lot
more than look cool but let's get to
that in a minute first
let's have a look
at
the challenger
this is
the no k
so is that like the opposite of okay
like it's
this is the no k rymec
with blue switch gorgeous light effect
retro style and bluetooth slash wire
dual mode
now the packaging isn't as good i don't
know what the deal is with this like
gradient brown
whenever i find tape on packaging
i have to know what's under it oh well
that's fine if cherries oem'ing your
keyboard that's not embarrassing
maybe some of our clever chinese viewers
can
give me some idea of
what that's about without the tape on it
i actually would have had a lot more
confidence going into them okay
this is looking not too bad to start so
they've got a little aluminum
something
they've got a little other more
different aluminum oh this is like your
uh like your stopper thing for the you
know okay it's not going to have much of
a function on a keyboard but
might look kind of neat
and then we've got the keyboard itself
i will say this
the uh
the
feel of the plastics here
doesn't hold a candle to the retro
classic
oh i was gonna say though
what's good is that they've got these
reinforcing ridges here so that when you
slide them into the slot you can't put
strain on the can
they don't do anything
they just borrowed someone else's
dueling for the usb connector
wait there's two
why does it have two
so this seems to go in here
oops
joe
does this come off it's like a little
handle here but it doesn't seem to come
off
and don't even get after me about pebcak
because there's no manual
does it go in this way
and it but it just sits there
no
that's it that's the whole mechanism why
do we even have these holes on it
okay
[Music]
that too it doesn't secure in any way it
just sits there
oh indiegogo did they this thing is this
thing
holy crap this thing raised
360 000
what the f
it's almost 200
this costs almost as much as the azio
one
you retro keyboard people not only are
there more of you than i thought you
guys are you guys are nuts my switches
are these they're covered by the back
plane here i can't tell what they are
also these lighting effects are really
annoying
there we go now they're breathing
now they're just scattered around now
they're breathing
well they're not cherry you know how i
know that
you hear how different the sound is
between those two
okay
so what the big
oh you have
got to be kidding me
oh there's a pad look
so there's a little rubberized pad here
presumably to keep whatever you put on
there safe
but it doesn't touch it
it just sits on
okay i guess we'll use the phone so i
guess this is part of its jam is you can
be sitting at your computer
and you can have your phone
i mean it says it has bluetooth but how
do you even
you know what forget it for now how
great its bluetooth is is not important
unless it's actually decent for typing
so let's find ourselves a typing test
holy crap that does not bode well look
at the wobble on these keycaps
i'm barely touching them
you know what let's start with a
baseline so this is a razer
black widow something or other with
their orange switches which are
basically chinese clones of cherry mx
browns
okay
73 adjusted words per minute
now
it should be born in mind that these
ones get every advantage now because i'm
more familiar with the text
oh boy
can't get momentum
[Music]
is that the same score
yeah
dang
i'm consistent let's try one more time
okay
this one is more representative of
probably what i can do but we're gonna
go back to the razer in a moment
critiques of this guy these keycaps are
wobbly the shape of them is absolutely
awful pardon my french because it's very
easy to accidentally mash two keys at a
time this one on the other hand
actually
not a terrible amount of wobble a little
bit more than i'd like but the spacing
between the keys means i wasn't
accidentally hitting multiple keys at
once but i did have a hard time
registering keystrokes from time to time
because the switches they're using which
i'm actually not sure what they are
i'll have to find that out but the
switches they're using are a little bit
on the heavy side for me
okay so they're kale some kind of kale
blues
let's go back
to the first keyboard
all right
97. actually let's try out the bluetooth
functionality first so i just flipped
this over to bluetooth mode and what i'm
hoping is it's going to be significantly
simpler to pair okay i'm holding
function and it starts flashing that's
weird there we go that's intuitive so
function and the bluetooth key
has it come up
okay
it's kind of a drag though that uh the
switch is located in such an
inconvenient spot
what's cool though is apparently it has
a six thousand milliamp hour battery
so you can continue to use it in
bluetooth mode
even when it's not plugged in
so it's wireless too
[Music]
and backlit
not bad
that helps a lot with the cost
now this guy on the other hand
not impressed so i wouldn't go as far as
to say that either of these is a
replacement for a more standard keyboard
for me
but i was surprised and impressed by how
close i was able to get on the asio
retro classic especially in light of how
apparently
desperate
the keyboard community is to get their
hands on
some kind of retro styled keyboard
because
this is how much
this product managed to raise on
indiegogo
so
i'm not strongly recommending either but
i will say that if you need to buy one i
would definitely go with this one
so thanks for watching guys if you
disliked this video then uh maybe you
work for uh
what's their company called again
maybe you worked for uk but if you uh
did like this video oh right you can hit
that button but if you liked it hit like
get subscribed maybe consider checking
out where to buy the stuff we featured
at the link below also down there is our
merch store which has cool shirts like
this one and our community forum which
you should definitely join